feat: :sparkles: add upload files section with exercise (#168)
rostools/github-intro: sessions/working-with-files.qmd

of the page.
:::

## Upload files to a GitHub repository

> 

Reviewer: Might help to have a teachers note here, to say that you just want to walkthrough but not actually upload an image. Or would you like to upload a file? If so, maybe add that?

Now that we've explored how to add files and folders to a GitHub
repository, let's take a look at how to upload files to GitHub.

Uploading files to a GitHub repository is a bit different from adding
files and folders. When we upload files, we can select files from our
computer and upload them directly to the repository.

To upload files to a GitHub repository, we'll go to the "Code" tab of
the repository and click the "Add file" button on the top-right side of
the page. In the dropdown menu, we'll click "Upload files". This leads
us to a new page where we can drag and drop files from our computer or
click the "choose your files" button to select files from our computer.
Once we've selected the files we want to upload, we can add a commit
message and commit the changes. This will upload the files to the
repository and create a new commit with the changes.

## :technologist: Upload a file to your repository

**Time: \~10 minutes.**

> Now, let's upload a file to your repository. You can either upload a
> random file from your compyter (a file that you don't mind sharing!) or
> you can download our
> [icon](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rostools/github-intro/refs/heads/main/_extensions/rostools/r3-theme/favicon.ico)
> and upload that to your repository. Alternatively, you can find an image
> of a cookie or recipe book from a website like
> [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/) and upload that to your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's upload a file to your repository. Find an image
of a cookie or recipe book from
[Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/) (or similar website), download it to your
computer, and then upload the image to your repository.
```

Keep it simple :wink: they'll end up doing what they want if they want to do something else.

Once you have decided on a file to upload and downloaded it to your
computer, follow these steps:

1.  In the "Code" tab of your repository, click the "Add file" button
    and then "Upload files".
2.  Drag and drop the file you want to upload into the upload area or
    click the "choose your files" button to select the file from your
    computer.
3.  Once you've selected the file, add a commit message to describe the
    changes as you've done before.

> 4.  Click the "Commit changes" button to upload the file to your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Click the "Commit changes..." button to upload the file to your
```

    repository.

> ::: callout-note
> Unfortunately, the file will be uploaded to the root of the repository
> and not in a folder. This is a limitation of GitHub's upload feature.
> 
> If you want to move the file to a folder, you can do so by going to the
> file in the repository and clicking the pencil icon
> {{< var pencil-icon >}} on the top-right side of the page. Then, you can
> change the file path to the folder you want to move it to as we did
> previously with the recipe files.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When you open a folder, you can upload the file in that folder.

Author: But you can't create a new folder at the same time as uploading a new image. Or at least I couldn't figure out how. 
Is it possible, through the GitHub interface to create only a new folder without a file in it?

Reviewer: No, because folders aren't physical things, at least to Git and computers (e.g. they don't take up storage space/can't write anything to it). A folder doesn't really represent anything on the computer disk. You can create an empty file on GitHub and put that in a new folder as a way to make a folder on GitHub.

I've updated my edit :)
